Add script to create sample application and pipelines. (#23)
GoogleCloudPlatform/spinnaker-for-gcp: sampleapp/bootstrap_sample_app.md

# Bootstrap sample application and pipelines

## Introduction

This section bootstraps your Spinnaker project with...

* A sample Go application
* A Cloud Build trigger to build an image from source
* Sample Spinnaker pipelines to deploy the image and validate the application in a progression from staging environment to production

To proceed with the section, make sure the spinnaker instance is reachable with either port-forwarding or exposed publicly.

## Create sample pipelines

Run the following to create the required resources:

```bash
~/spinnaker-for-gcp/sampleapp/create_sample_pipelines.sh
```

### Resources created:

The source code is hosted in [Cloud Source Repository](https://source.cloud.google.com/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp)
in the same project.

> The repo contains a few other items:

Author: I see..

executes the Cloud Build config when any source code or manifest files are changed under
src/* or config/* in the repo

Cloud Build creates an [image](https://gcr.io/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp) based
on the sample app and tags that image with the short commit hash.

The script also creates two Kubernetes namespaces...
* **sampleapp-staging**
* **sampleapp-prod**

...and the **sampleapp-service** service in each of those namespaces, in the Spinnaker cluster.

These services expose the Go application for staging and prod environments.

This process creates Spinnaker two pipelines under the **sampleapp-gke** Spinnaker application:

* Deploy to Staging triggers on a newly pushed GCR image, and deploys the image to the
sampleapp-staging namespace, using a blue/green deployment strategy.

  The pipeline then validates the health of the service. On success, the old ReplicaSet is deleted.

* Deploy to Production triggers when Deploy to Staging succeeds, and deploys the the tested image to 
the sampleapp-prod namespace, also using a blue/green strategy.

  It then runs the same health validation job.

You can navigate to your Spinnaker UI to see these pipelines.

> * **Deploy to Staging** triggers on a newly pushed GCR image, and Blue/Green deploys the image to the

Reviewer: I feel like this is mostly a repetition of the list above. Can you combine the information from here into that one up there (like the namespace name), and then delete this list. Then the sentence right above this list can stand on it's own: "You can navigate to your Spinnaker UI to see the pipelines."

Author: Oh boy, I really butchered this doc. Reviewing with you in person

**sampleapp-staging** namespace. It then runs a validation job to check the health status of the service. On
success, the old replicaset is deleted.
* **Deploy to Production** starts on a successful **Deploy to Staging** run and also Blue/Green deploys 
the tested image to **sampleapp-prod** namespace. It then runs the health validation job.

## Start a new build

To build and deploy an image, just change some [source code](https://source.cloud.google.com/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp/+/master:src/main.go)

> or [manifest files](https://source.cloud.google.com/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp/+/master:config/) push the change to the master branch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or [manifest files](https://source.cloud.google.com/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp/+/master:config/) and push the change to the master branch. 
```

> The repo has already been cloned to your home directory. Make some changes to the source code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository is already cloned to your home directory. Make some changes to the source code...
```

> Make some changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash

> cloudshell edit ~/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp/src/main.go

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't a direct link using `<walkthrough-editor-open-file>` be easier for the user? Like we do for the `properties` file.

Author: I didn't go with this because the `{{project-id}}` variable doesn't resolve in the relative path or name of the `<walkthrough-editor-open-file>`. I would have to generate the tutorial to use it

Reviewer 2: Ok, makes sense.

```

> and commit the changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...and commit the changes:
```

```bash
cd ~/{{project-id}}/spinnaker-marketplace-sampleapp

git add *

> git commit -m "Cool new features"

Reviewer 2: Could use `git commit -am "Cool new features"` to save one command.

```

> The new commit triggers the chain of events...

Reviewer 2: Doesn't the updated branch first need to be pushed to cause the trigger to fire?

> * Cloud Build to build the image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Cloud Build builds the image.
```

> * **Deploy to Staging** pipeline to deploy the built image to staging and validate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **Deploy to Staging** pipeline deploys the image to staging and validates it.
```

> * **Deploy to Production** pipeline to promote the image to production and validate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **Deploy to Production** pipeline promotes the image to production and validates it.
```

> Visit the Spinnaker UI to verify that the pipelines complete succesfully.

Reviewer: Can we link to Deck, or to the same Preview on Port <whatever> that we use in the install process?

Author: Not sure how to assume this without running another script, so I'll leave it as is for now.. It was part of the prereqs in introduction after all

> Once completed, the [**sampleapp-services**](https://console.developers.google.com/kubernetes/discovery?project={{project-id}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the pipelines finish, the [**sampleapp-services**](https://console.developers.google.com/kubernetes/discovery?project={{project-id}})
```

> hosting the Go application should now be up and healthy. Click on the **endpoints**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hosting the Go application will now be up and healthy. Click on the **endpoints**
```

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#letter-S

for each service to see a "Hello World" page!

### Clean-up

> Run the following to delete all the resources created above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this command to delete all the resources created above:
```
